README.md, before:

# Websphere Application Server Network Deployment 8.5.5.x 2-Node Cluster on Docker

Referrence to [Amir Barkal's Websphere Application Server Network Deployment 2-Node Cluster on Docker](https://github.com/amirbarkal/websphere-nd-docker.git) and [IBM official Dockerfiles for WebSphere Application Server traditional](https://github.com/WASdev/ci.docker.websphere-traditional)

======================================================================================================
## What is this?

This is a bunch of dockerfiles and docker-compose yaml files to get you started quickly with WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment 8.5.5.x cluster.
The purpose of this project is to easily create a 2 node cluster with a custom WAS profile, running on 3 Docker containers:
* Deployment Manager (dmgr)
* Custom node 1 running an application server (custom1)
* Custom node 2 running an application server (custom2)

NOTE: At the moment the cluster needs to be manually created from ISC, after the
  cell has been initialized.

## What is it good for?
Testing, demonstration, learning and POC. Witnessing the AWESOME power of Docker!

## Prerequisites:
* Git-Bash with Administrator privileges. It will be used to clone this repository, and as a shell to run docker CLI. 
* Docker-tools with minimum engine version 1.12.0

## How do I run it?
1. Clone this repo `https://github.com/hxf0801/wasnd855-docker.git`
2. Change to the repo dir `cd wasnd855-docker`
3. Go to Directory `install` to build an WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional Docker image. And then go back here. 
    > Refer to [the detailed steps](README_StepByStep.md) to find out more on **_`Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional image`_**.
4. Execute `docker-compose up -d`.
    > Refer to [the detailed steps](README_StepByStep.md) for **_Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional deployment manager image_** and **_Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional custom node image_**.
    
    > For specifing a compose file, execute `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml up -d`. 

    > See logs, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs`.

    > See logs for certain service _custom2_, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs custom2`.

    > Export logs to a file named _log.txt_, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs > log.txt`
5. Wait for it... (Can take up to 20 minutes depending on the speed of your internet connection and CPU)
   > You can check containers status with `docker stats`. When CPU activity is around 0% your cluster is ready!
6. Manually create cluster
    * Access the ISC(**I**ntegrated **S**olution **C**onsole) and enter random username. (i.e. `wasadmin`)
      > Run `docker-machine ls` to find out the deployment manager's IP as `DOCKER_HOST`.

      > Open `http://DOCKER_HOST:9060/admin`. Security is off, so use whatever login name you like.

    * Create the cluster
      * Go to `Servers >> Clusters >> WebSphere application server clusters >> New`
    ![Create the cluster](images/1.png)
      *  Enter cluster name, keep default options and hit `Next`
    ![](images/2.png)
      * Add the first cluster member to node custom1, again keeping all default options and click `Next`
    ![](images/3.png)
      * Add the second cluster member to node custom2 and click `Add Member`
    ![](images/4.png)
      * Review the summary and hit `Finish`
    ![](images/5.png)
      * Click `Review`
    ![](images/6.png)
      * Make sure `Synchronize changes with Nodes` is selected and then click `Save`
    ![](images/7.png)
      * Wait a while for configuration synchronization to complete before clicking `OK`
    ![](images/8.png)
      * Start the cluster by selecting it from the list and hit `Start`
    ![](images/9.png)
      * Wait for the 2 application server JVMs to load. You can check their status in 
    `Servers >> Server Types >> WebSphere application servers`. The column **Host Name** is the container id.
    ![](images/10.png)

## To Do:
* Automate install application and setup env when creating custom node
* Automate cluster creation upon cell initialization

Commit message:

sample to create profile and install application

README.md, after:

# Websphere Application Server Network Deployment 8.5.5.x 2-Node Cluster on Docker

The project elaborates how to create WebSphere Application Server base image from scratch and utilize it to create default profile or cluster. It requires user must first download WebSphere installation files to local system.

Referrences:
1. [Amir Barkal's Websphere Application Server Network Deployment 2-Node Cluster on Docker](https://github.com/amirbarkal/websphere-nd-docker.git) 
2. [IBM official Dockerfiles for WebSphere Application Server traditional](https://github.com/WASdev/ci.docker.websphere-traditional)

======================================================================================================
## What is this?

This is a bunch of dockerfiles and docker-compose yaml files to get you started quickly with WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment 8.5.5.x cluster.
The purpose of this project is to easily create a 2 node cluster with a custom WAS profile, running on 3 Docker containers:
* Deployment Manager (dmgr)
* Custom node 1 running an application server (custom1)
* Custom node 2 running an application server (custom2)

NOTE: At the moment the cluster needs to be manually created from ISC, after the
  cell has been initialized.

## What is it good for?
Testing, demonstration, learning and POC. Witnessing the AWESOME power of Docker!

## Prerequisites:
* Git-Bash with Administrator privileges. It will be used to clone this repository, and as a shell to run docker CLI. 
* Docker-tools with minimum engine version 1.12.0

## How do I run it?
1. Clone this repo `https://github.com/hxf0801/wasnd855-docker.git`
2. Change to the repo dir `cd wasnd855-docker`
3. Go to Directory `install` to build an bare WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional Docker image. And then go back here. 
    > Refer to [the detailed steps](README_StepByStep.md) to find out more on **_`Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional image`_**.
4. Execute `docker-compose up -d`.
    > Refer to [the detailed steps](README_StepByStep.md) for **_Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional deployment manager image_** and **_Build an IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment traditional custom node image_**.
    
    > For specifing a compose file, execute `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml up -d`. 

    > See logs, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs`.

    > See logs for certain service _custom2_, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs custom2`.

    > Export logs to a file named _log.txt_, issue `docker-compose -f docker-compose.centos7.yml logs > log.txt`
5. Wait for it... (Can take up to 20 minutes depending on the speed of your internet connection and CPU)
   > You can check containers status with `docker stats`. When CPU activity is around 0% your cluster is ready!
6. Manually create cluster
    * Access the ISC(**I**ntegrated **S**olution **C**onsole) and enter random username. (i.e. `wasadmin`)
      > Run `docker-machine ls` to find out the deployment manager's IP as `DOCKER_HOST`.

      > Open `http://DOCKER_HOST:9060/admin`. Security is off, so use whatever login name you like.

    * Create the cluster
      * Go to `Servers >> Clusters >> WebSphere application server clusters >> New`
    ![Create the cluster](images/1.png)
      *  Enter cluster name, keep default options and hit `Next`
    ![](images/2.png)
      * Add the first cluster member to node custom1, again keeping all default options and click `Next`
    ![](images/3.png)
      * Add the second cluster member to node custom2 and click `Add Member`
    ![](images/4.png)
      * Review the summary and hit `Finish`
    ![](images/5.png)
      * Click `Review`
    ![](images/6.png)
      * Make sure `Synchronize changes with Nodes` is selected and then click `Save`
    ![](images/7.png)
      * Wait a while for configuration synchronization to complete before clicking `OK`
    ![](images/8.png)
      * Start the cluster by selecting it from the list and hit `Start`
    ![](images/9.png)
      * Wait for the 2 application server JVMs to load. You can check their status in 
    `Servers >> Server Types >> WebSphere application servers`. The column **Host Name** is the container id.
    ![](images/10.png)

## Automatically create profile and start server once container created:
Directory `samples` provide how to utilize the above bare WebSphere image to install and configure applications.

## To Do:
* Automate cluster creation upon cell initialization
